# yugabyte-boshrelease

This is a [BOSH](http://bosh.io/) release for [YugabyteDB](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db).

## server-to-server tls

TLS for server-to-server ("node-to-node", as in, traffic between `tserver` and/or `master` nodes) is on _and required_ by default, i.e. `allow_insecure_connections: false` by default. You can modify these properties using operator files.

We use BOSH's credhub integration to generate individual certificates for both `master` and `tserver` instance groups leveraging [wildcard BOSH DNS values for the certificate SANs, meaning the actual hostname DNS values are handled automatically](https://bosh.io/docs/dns/). Since they're both signed by the same CA (by default located in credhub under `/services/tls_ca`, which is the CA for service instances which nearly all other service offerings in Cloud Foundry leverage for TLS), and each have the same `common_name`, they should be compatible with one another.

[It's a bit unclear to me how `common_name` and `alternative_names` should be configured](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/secure/tls-encryption/server-certificates/). Is it completely arbitrary? Does the file name actually matter? Does it have to be related to the DNS hostname of each node instance? We'll all figure it out _together_ 💖

For the moment we'll assume it's looking for the name to be the configured hostname of the individual host. We can assume this because of the following log line from `/var/vcap/sys/log/yb-master/yb-master.INFO`:

```log
tail yb-master.INFO
...
I0305 00:19:30.295537     6 secure.cc:102] Certs directory: /var/vcap/jobs/yb-master/config/certs, name: q-m90323n3s0.q-g88658.bosh
```

## client-to-server tls

TLS for client-to-server (as in, from a client application using the universe) is on, but _not required_ by default, i.e. `allow_insecure_connections: true` by default for optional use of TLS from clients. You can modify these properties using operator files.

[Note, `YEDIS` does not support client-to-server TLS](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/secure/tls-encryption/)

## regarding rpc_bind and broadcast_bind

You might see lines like this in current configurations:

```erb
--rpc_bind_addresses=<%= spec.address %>:<%= p("rpc_bind_addresses_port") %>
--server_broadcast_addresses=<%= spec.address %>:<%= p("rpc_bind_addresses_port") %>
```

Notice how `--server_broadcast_addresses` is using an address with `rpc_bind_addresses_port` as the port. This is because the differences between `rpc_bind_addresses_port` and something like `server_broadcast_addresses_port` are too small at the moment to really make a huge difference, so _for the time being_ they're going to be collapsed into one, and only `rpc_bind_addresses_port` will be referenced. Is it correct? Honestly, not 100% sure. Actually I'm 100% it isn't correct or ideal. But for the time being, it works, and you know what, we'll get there.

## why some gflags are BOSH properties and others are just... gflags

Certain flags (but not all) are defined as their own property with their own defaults, descriptions, opsfiles, etc. These properties are (somewhat arbitrarily) important enough to stand out. It's of my opinion that flags important enough to make a difference to a consumer of this release should receive their own `property`, with reasonable defaults and a description, whereas `gflags` acts as a backup and a catch-all.

There are many flags which should have reasonable defaults, which either are specific to this BOSH release (and thus aren't defined in upstream Yugabyte), or we feel should be different from the defaults selected from upstream Yugabyte. But if we don't put those configuration flags as their own property in the BOSH job `spec`, and instead rely on `gflags: {x: y}` to pass in everything, then there's no way (that I'm aware of?) for the maintainers of this BOSH release to set default `gflags` in such a way that consumers could selectively override individual flags. For example: if someone wanted to override _one_ flag, like `placement_cloud`, then _all_ the defaults we set in `gflags` in the job `spec` file would back off and deactivate. A consumer would have to define all the defaults _we_ set (if they so chose) in their `gflags` override in addition to the _one_ flag they wanted to change.

## rotating the YCQL admin "cassandra" user password

There is a default YCQL superadmin with the credentials `cassandra`/`cassandra`. The password for the `cassandra` user can be rotated in a two-step process. You'll need to configure the `cassandra_password_old` property, which will be used while attempting to set the new password to `cassandra_password`. Once the new password of `cassandra_password` is set and in-use, you can remove the opsfile for `cassandra_password_old` at your discretion.

Now, with that said, keep in mind--

The default _manifest_ in `manifests/yugabyte.yml` will automatically change the `cassandra` user password to an autogenerated password of `((ycql_cassandra_password))`. The `cassandra` user is then used for other internal administrative tasks, like provisioning other users, etc. It also provides a default "superuser" of `admin` with a password of `((ycql_superuser_admin_password))`. The intent is that this user be used by consuming applications instead of `cassandra`/`cassandra`. That's the current ideal, at least.

In order to change the password of a user through `ycql.databases.superusers[*].password: some_password`, just change the value of `some_password` in-place. The root `cassandra` user is used internally to `ALTER` those superusers, so you don't need to worry about doing fancy swapouts of those passwords. Just change it in the deployment manifest, and it'll rotate on the next deploy.

## cutting releases

Having a fully automated release process is a goal. But we want to make sure it's done well, and would like to have it done using github actions if possible. But until then, here's the general workflow. We're assuming any `bosh add-blobs` and `bosh upload-blobs` commands have been `git commit`'ed if blobs are changing, and now we're on the release process.

NOTE: before cutting a new release, make sure that the contents of `src/yugabyte-additional/post_install.sh` have proper values of `ORIG_BREW_HOME` and `ORIG_LEN` and such depending on the upstream version of `yugabyte` being cut.

```sh
cd yugabyte-boshrelease

# first of all, your workspace needs to be up-to-date and clean of dirty commits,
# or else you'll commit something inadvertently to this release
git pull origin main

# to pull all blobs from s3 to local directory, if necessary
bosh sync-blobs

git checkout -b release-x.y.z

# place the release tgz in your /tmp dir in order to calculate a shasum on it, and to upload to a github release
bosh create-release --final --version=x.y.z --tarball=/tmp/yugabyte-x.y.z.tgz

# this will be used to update the versions.yml
shasum -a 1 /tmp/yugabyte-x.y.z.tgz

# use that shasum value to update the manifests/versions.yml
yugabyte_boshrelease_sha1: 582c112d4621361a031e530885f5653868f1bbd0
yugabyte_boshrelease_version: x.y.z

# git commit all of this to the branch
git add -A
git commit -m "release-x.y.z"
git push origin release-x.y.z

# squash 'n merge it into main
```

now for making the release available as an actual github release:

```sh
# after squashing and merging into main...
git checkout main
git pull origin main

# notice the lack of 'v' prefix. not a fan of it.
git tag x.y.z
git push origin --tags
```

then go to the github releases page, click on the release for the newly created tag, and configure the release with a title, release notes, and an asset copy of the tarball from `/tmp/yugabyte-x.y.z.tgz`

voila, you're set.

## contributing

Ideas, feedback, bug reports, etc. are all welcome, _but_ by no means guaranteed to be implemented, responded to, or merged.
